---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Answering 5.1 Questions 
categories: [Work]
tags: [Week 20]
title: Question/Answers/Reflections for 5.1 Questions.
---

# Questions for Post Blog Reflection

1. How does someone empower themselves in a digital world?
    - People can empower themselves in the digital world by spreading good information, those that empower themselves, those that empower those next to them, and those who may be oppressed. By posting and spreading the information that we want to send about ourselves, we can empower ourselves to do better. By empowering ourselves to do better, we can feel better about ourselves, and see what we are doing wrong, and help others as a result.
2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.
    - Someone that is empowered could help someone who isn't by standing up for them, and believing in who they are. If one does this, both the empowerer and empoweree will feel better, and both rise as a result. In the context of Del Norte, we could stand up for them in clubs, classrooms, sports, etc. By empowering them in this way we give their successes, their achievement, and their accomplishments to the world. As a result, we are able to empower everyone and have them be recognized. This can empower them. However, when we do such a thing, we must make it as digestible to ourselves as possible, as one can see someone do something extraordinary, however as a result be daunted to do it themselves, and for something we for granted such as the empowerment ouf ourselves and out peers, we may lose the chain to successes when we make a show, or scene out of our assistance. By keeping it digestible, we allow people to replicate our *experiment* effectively.
3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?
    - There is definitely something blocking digital empowerment, however I don't think its the air of exclusivity or our attachment to older methods. These can easily be overcome simply by providing access, which as we speak is something that our government (*hopefully*) is looking to fix. I feel the real barrier is similar to our attachment to older methods however is still slightly different: our inability to teach this. I feel it may be fixed in some deep rooted ageism, or something or the other, but we as a <mark>society</mark> does not have the collective experience towards technology to adapt and teach it effectively. This is also what makes constantly evolving technology and aside from the constant progression of our society so fearful. Throughout the rest of human history, every achievement has been met with a rest period, a period for kids and adults alike to adapt, understand, break down, and teach the newest inventions of the era. It worked with steam energy, coal, and the advent of electricity. But now, we have an energy source that powers innovation, but it is far faster and far larger, the age of the bit and the byte. With such an accessible technology and new software being written to assist in its cultivation every day, and further expand it from a niche idea to the energy of the masses, innovation will burst in a far more than simply exponential way. As a result, this constantly evolving society we find ourselves in finds it hard to teach, and as a result finds it hard to block empowerment. A good example of this (*being constantly evolving society causing the inability to effectively teach correctly*) in Del Norte would be fastpages. The advent of fastpage's deprecation for Quarto results in many kids having issues that have to resolved immediately lest they turn into issues for the actual learning they are supposed to engage in. Now, we reflect this issue onto the issue of empowerment. Its very plausible with the sheer amount of people that can code, and can code at a high level, the definition of empowerment can change tomorrow, or the day after than (and so on and so forth). This is the largest gatekeeper to empowerment: the inability to handle the exact definition, and each specific case. There is no rest for innovation in the age of the bit. There is no calm before the storm from henceforth. We also see this in the art world. All of a sudden, ChatGPT, midway, Dall-E are becoming not only more advanced, but also more accessible, open to change. Now imagine the debates about empowerment when AI comes into the fray. It will be a mess and we're going to have to deal with a word that does not have real meaning past what it meant in the time period the human who's defining it lives in. The greatest gatekeeper is the constant change we face. It's a vicious cycle but also does have a solution. Nailing down some concrete-ness, better reactivity from our institutions and redundancy built into the system. Ironically if we think logically and are able to contemplate the safety nets and features necessary to accommodate everyone, we can find ourselves a balance where we can sustain the empowerment of everybody while still retaining the constant innovation that we so seek. 
    - Also antitrust laws would help. That too. 