---
toc: true
layout: post
description: amongus
categories: [Work]
tags: [Week 21]
title: 5.3 Bias Answers
---

**Does the owner of the computer think this was intentional? If yes or no, justify you conclusion.** <br>
We can infer from his jocular tone and his lack of anger that he does not believe that this was intentional. He chooses to have fun, rather than berating people about it, which means he doesn't believe it is intentional. <br>

**How do you think this happened?** <br>
There are two reasons why this could happen. Either it is as a result of white developers making and testing it solely on white people, or it was just a negligently bug as a result of poor light being picked up from the camera. I would say that it is the former, because even if there was no actual racist intent, it was very possible that those behind this were not testing it on all skin colors.  <br>
**Is this harmful? Was it intended to be harmful or exclude?**<br>
I don't feel it was harmful to exclude, but simply a byproduct of the not so diverse workforce working on this program. At the end of the day, I feel it could be harmful, because not only is this possibly a waste of money for anyone who bought it, as this man did. It may make people similarly feel excluded or cheated.<br>
**Should it be corrected?**<br>
Absolutely, not only does it appear racist, it is simply fraudulent advertising. Note everybody can have their faced tracked doesn't essentially means that they don't exist to the computer, which is terrible and bad PR. Therefore, it absolutely should be corrected.

**What would you or should you do to produce a better outcome?** <br>
For in-depth testing would be necessary to fix this issue. Working on a variety of tools, people, tones of skin colors, and a better mantra or general focus would help when producing a better outcome. Rigor in the testing process would contribute to better results.

# Final Reflection <br>
I think this discussion was necessary, because it was very interesting to hear the perspectives of people, especially on the Siri/Alexa discussion. Since computer science is very much a male-dominated industry, it was interesting to see one's perceptions on women voices, and while I feel it is as a result of inherent bias, it was interesting to see other perspectives of others such as myself and those who think other stuff.