---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Collegeboard answers
categories: [Work]
tags: [Week 20]
title: Dating App Writeup
---
# Our project: A dating app.

3a. 
<br>
    3a.i
    <br>
    - This program was made to provide people with possible romantic or platonic relationships with other people when they would like to.
    <br>
    3a.ii
    <br>
    - In the video it shows the ability to match with multiple users depending on certain attributes, and shows the utilization of creation, reading, updating, and deleting users.
    <br>
    - The video shows the user creating and account, setting up their account, and matching with users who have similar likes. The user inputs information and the program outputs potential matches depending on their inputs
    <br>
3b.
<br>
    3b.i
    <br>
    - There would a be a list `num_people`, or a similar list, that would store the complete list of certain matches. These people would then be used in the match screen.
    <br>
    3b.ii
    <br>
    - Name: "num_people"
    <br>
    3b.iii
    <br>
    - The data in this list would be a number of `user` objects whose attributes would be similar to one of our users. This would manage complexity as instead of retrieving and storing individual people, it instead groups them for ease of use.
    <br>
    3b.iv
    <br>
    - this is vital to my code as it stores a list of people instead of individually having call a procedure multiple times
    <br>
    3b.v
    <br>
    - If the program were to run without it would make it very inefficient through the managing of possibly 100 matches between people at high user traffic. As a result, this would make multiple variables, all of which need a separate memory, and cause poor optimization of the code.
    <br>
3c. 
<br>
    3c.i
    <br>
    - Example function: Match depending on API
    <br>
        - This function would take two users and compare their various vitals. This would then count points and if over a cap, they would return the user as a true.
        <br>
    3c.ii
    <br>
    - This would be called when we are trying to open the match page, and as a result would be called, different matches would load
    <br>
    3c.iii<br>
    - This function does a majority of the work as it matches up people and is the entire backend for this part of the project.
    <br>
    3c.iv<br>
    - The procedure gathers the entire user base and compares each person's vitals to one main user, and assigns a point value depending on similarities. if it meets a certain cap, it appends the user to a list
    <br>
3d.<br>
    3d.i<br>
    - First call: Occurs with a person who has the likes "basketball" and "card games"
    <br>
    - Second call: Occurs with a person who has the likes "dancing" and "piano"     
    <br>
    3d.ii
    <br>
    - condition tested by the first call: Tests with the likes "basketball" and "card games"
    <br>
    - condition tested by the second call: Tests with the likes "dancing" and "piano"
    <br>
    3d.iii
    - The result of the first call is one set of matches due to the likes.<br>
    - The result of the second call is one set of matches due to the separate likes.<br>

# What My Video Will Show:
- A user going through creating an account with some presets
- A user then choosing to match with a specific person
- A user displaying those matches
- Another user (already signed in) trying to match with different likes
- Showing the possible results each time.

# What I May Need
- All we really need is a DB to hold users. This may either be firebase or AWS

# Our Project:
Our project is a dating app that will allow users to match up with different people and take a personality quiz to see what personalities they would match up with.